kinds of reproducible builds (#51)
chains-project/chains-project.github.io: kinds-of-reproducible-builds.md

---
title: The Different Types of Reproducible Builds
---

# The Different Types of Reproducible Builds

Reproducible builds are a set of software development practices to support an independently-verifiable path from source to binary code. 
Why its matter:

- **Security**: It allows verification that no vulnerabilities or backdoors were introduced during compilation
- **Trust**: It enables multiple parties to validate that binaries match the published source code
- **Quality Assurance**: It provides consistency in testing and deployment environments
- **Long-term Maintenance**: It makes it possible to recreate development environments years later

## Kinds of reproducible builds

**Same-environment reproducibility**: Ensures that building the same source code with the same build environment produces identical binary outputs, byte-for-byte. 

> **Different-environment reproducibility**: Ensures that building the same source code within different build environment produces identical binary outputs, byte-for-byte. A classical example is changing the opearting sytem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Different-environment reproducibility**: Ensures that building the same source code within different build environments produces identical binary outputs, byte-for-byte. A classical example is changing the operating system.
```
